# Overview

Learning a new language is always going to be hard. There will be obstacles to overcome, whether they are generated by the language or yourself. As a software engineer, I need to overcome these obstacles and create something useful. I feel like I have done exactly that with this project!

Task Manager was written in Kotlin. The application demonstrates a few strengths the language possesses: the "when" statement, its ties with Java, and intuitive class declaration. It combines these in a way that allows different people to create their own lists of tasks. All you do is log in or register (using a username of your choice), add a few tasks, and quit. When you want to check back in or remove tasks, just log in and do so.

This piece of software was meant to challenge my ability to adapt to new languages. Kotlin is based on Java and shares almost all of its functionality and packages. It is extremely different in syntax, however. I wanted to test how well I could pick it up and write exactly what I was thinking into existence.

[Software Demo Video](https://youtu.be/fyjRUFUNOIM)

# Development Environment

Since Kotlin is developed by JetBrains, I opted to use their Java-ready IDE, IntelliJ Idea. This made it relatively easy to set up all the files and any tools needed for my project.

Kotlin is like a marriage of Java and Python. Where Java is a language that can be minimized (i.e. all the formatting whitespace removed), Kotlin is not. Where Python allows the user to completely omit data types, Kotlin is not. In my opinion, Kotlin is good mix of both. It's easy to 

# Useful Websites

- [Study Tonight - Kotlin File Handling](https://www.studytonight.com/kotlin/kotlin-file-handling)
- [(Youtube Playlist) Useful Kotlin Tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLrnPJCHvNZuAIbejjZA1kGfLeA8ZpICB2)

# Future Work

- Improve UI/UX
- Fix "\n" character at the end of files
- Create a User class
- Improve authentication

## NOTE
The actual program is stored in src -> main -> kotlin -> Main.kt. The program will create all the files it needs, so don't worry about initializing any .txt files.
